הקדמה על מוטיבציה למושג הפתירות בספר

Def (6.15) (Solvable group):
A group $G$ is called "solvable" if it has a normal series with abelian quotiens.

Example (6.16) (Trivial example):
If $G$ is an abelian group, then $G$ is solvable. Because $\left\{ e \right\} \trianglelefteq G$ is a nomal series with abelian quotients.

Example (6.17) ($p \cdot q$ groups):
Let $p$, $q$ be prime numbers s.t. $p < q$. And let $G$ be a group such that $\left\vert G \right\vert = p \cdot q$. Then $G$ is solvable.
By [[חבורות pq#^451ec8 | pq groups lemma]] we know that $Syl_q{G} = \left\{ Q \right\}$. And therefor the series $\left\{ e \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_{q}}{\trianglelefteq} Q \overset{\mathbb{Z}_{p}}{\trianglelefteq} G$ is a normal series of $G$ with abelian quotients. 

Def (6.18) (The commtator):
Let $G$ be a group, and $a,b \in G$. The "commutator" of $a$ and $b$ is denoted $[a,b]$ and defined as
$$[a,b] := aba^{-1}b^{-1}$$

Note that the following properites hold:
>1) $ab = ba \iff [a,b] = e$
> 	  ($ab = ba \iff ab(ba)^{-1} = e \iff [a,b] := aba^{-1}b^{-1} = e$)

>2) If $N \trianglelefteq G$ and $b \in N$ then for all $a \in G$ $[a,b] \in N$
>	Because $\underbrace{aba^{-1}}_{\in N}\underbrace{b^{-1}}_{\in N} \in N$
>	And also $[b,a] \in N$ Because $\underbrace{b}_{\in N}\underbrace{ab^{-1}a^{-1}}_{\in N} \in N$

>3) $\gamma [a, b] \gamma ^{-1} = [\gamma a \gamma ^{-1}, \gamma b \gamma ^{-1}]$
>	Because $[\gamma a \gamma ^{-1}, \gamma b \gamma ^{-1}] = \gamma a \gamma ^{-1} \gamma b \gamma ^{-1} (\gamma a \gamma ^{-1})^{-1} (\gamma b \gamma ^{-1})^{-1} =$
>	$= \gamma a \gamma ^{-1} \gamma b \gamma ^{-1} \gamma a^{-1} \gamma ^{-1} \gamma b^{-1} \gamma ^{-1} = \gamma aba^{-1}b^{-1} \gamma ^{-1} = \gamma [a, b] \gamma ^{-1}$

^35be29

>4) $[a,b]^{-1} = [b,a]$
>	As $[a,b]^{-1} = (aba^{-1}b^{-1})^{-1} = bab^{-1}a^{-1} = [b,a]$

Additionally:
Theorem (6.19):
Let $G$ be a group, and $N \trianglelefteq G$. Then $G \big/ N$ is abelian $\iff$ $N$ containes all the commutators from $G$ ($\forall a, b \in G : [a,b] \in N$).
Proof (1): ^9d6b3f
>	$\forall a,b \in G :$
>	$baN = abN$ $\iff$ $bab^{-1}a^{-1}N = N$ $\iff$ $([b,a] =)$ $bab^{-1}a^{-1} \in N$

Proof (2) (Same proof in different terms):
>	Notice that: $\forall a,b \in G :$ $[aN, bN] = [a,b]N$ ($\in G \big / N$).
>	Therefor $G \big / N$ is abelian $\iff$ $\forall a,b \in G$ : ($[a,b]N =$) $[aN,bN] = eN = N$ $\iff$ $\forall a,b \in G : [a,b] \in N$

Def (6.20):
Let $G$ be a group. The "derived group" of $G$ (Or "the commutator group") is denoted $G'$ (or $[G:G]$) and defined as:
$$G' := <\left\{ [a,b] \mid a,b \in G \right\}>$$
(The sub-group generated from all the commutators)

Note: That generally speaking the set of all commutators $\left\{ [a,b] \mid a,b \in G \right\}$ is not necessarily a subgroup by itself.

Theorem (6.21):
>1) $G'  \trianglelefteq G$

^43bdb8

>2) $G \big / G'$ is abelian

^55ab35

>3) If $N \trianglelefteq G$, then $G \big / N$ is abelian $\iff$ $G' \trianglelefteq N$

^0532ef

Proof:
>[[#^43bdb8 | Part (1):]]
>	Direct from [[#^35be29]].

^447a57

> [[#^55ab35 | Part (2): ]]
> 	Direct from [[#^9d6b3f]] And clearly $G'$ contwe knowains all the commutator.

> [[#^0532ef| Part (3):]]
> 	Also direct from [[#^9d6b3f]] (And also using [[#^36252c| the lemma]] on the $G \big / N$ is abelian $\implies$ $G' \trianglelefteq N$ direction. Since All the commutators are in $N$, meaning $A \subseteq B$, for $A = \left \{ [a,b] \mid a,b \in G \right \}$ and $B = N$, then $G' = \left < A \right > \leq \left < B \right > = \left < N \right > = N$. (And normality is a direct result of [[#^43bdb8]])).

>Lemma: (Probably should be in a more appropriate place)
	Let $G$ be a group. And $A, B \subseteq G$ s.t. $A \subseteq B$. Then $\left <A \right > \leq \left <B \right >$.

^36252c

>Remark (6.22):
>	It is absolutly possible that $G' = G$.
>	For example $A'_n = A_n$ (For $n \geq 5$) (As $A_n$ is simple and not abelian)
>	And therefor, $G$ does not have any abelian qoutient (Except for the trivial one of course)

>Exercise (6.23):

>	1) Find $A'_4$, $Q'$ And $D'_4$. (Where $Q$ are the quaternion group).

^97e328

>	2) Find $S'_n$ for all $n \geq 2$.

^e0ec96

>Solution:

>	[[#^97e328 | Part 1:]]

>>		$A'_4$:
>>			
>
>>		$Q'$:
>>			$Q$ is non-abelian ($ij=k\neq-k=ji$) $\implies$ $Q' \neq \left \{ 1 \right \}$.
>>			$Q \big / \left\{ \pm \right\} \cong \mathbb{z}_2 \times \mathbb{z}_2$ is abelian $\implies$ $Q' \leq \left\{ \pm 1 \right\}$
>>			And together we get that $Q'=\left\{ \pm 1 \right\}$
>>			
>
>>		$D'_4$:
>>			In the IPad. $D'_4 = \left < \sigma^2 \right >$

>	[[#^e0ec96 | Part 2]]:
>		In the IPad...

>Exercise (6.24):
>	Skipping to save time

>Def (6.25) (The derived series) (החבורה הנגזרת):
>	Let $G$ be a group. And $n \in \mathbb{N} \cup \left \{ 0 \right \}$. We will define the "$n-th$" derived group of $G$ (Denoted $G^{(n)}$) inductively, by
>	$$G^{(0)} := G$$
>	$$G^{(n + 1)} := \left (G^{(n)} \right)' \quad\quad \left(=[G^{(n)}:G^{(n)}] \right)$$
>	And the series
>	$$\dots \trianglelefteq G^{(n+1)} \trianglelefteq G^{(n)} \trianglelefteq \cdots \trianglelefteq G^{(2)} \trianglelefteq G^{(1)} \trianglelefteq G^{(0)} = G$$
>	Will be called "The derived series of G".

Note that $G^{(1)}$ is just another way to write $G'$.

>Theorem (6.26):
>	For all $n \in \mathbb{N} \cup \left\{0\right\}$ $G^{(n)} \trianglelefteq G$.

^da0e12

>Proof:
>	By induction on $n$.
>>	Base case ($n \in \left\{ 0,1 \right\}$): For $n = 0$ it is obvious, and for $n = 1$ [[#^43bdb8 | We know it already]].
>
>>	Induction step: Let $n \in \mathbb{N}$. We assume the hypothesis for $n$. And we will show for $n+1$.
>>	We want to show that $G^{(n + 1)} \trianglelefteq G$. Let $\gamma \in G$ and $g \in G^{(n + 1)}$. We want to show that $\gamma g \gamma^{-1} \in G^{(n + 1)}$.
>>	By the definition of $G^{(n + 1)}$ we have that $G^{(n + 1)} = \left < [a,b] \mid a,b \in G^{(n)} \right >$. Therefor there is $k \in \mathbb{N}$ and $\forall i \in [k]$ there are $a_i,b_i \in G^{(n)}$ s.t. $g = \prod\limits_{i=1}^{k} [a_i,b_i]$
>>	And now
>>	$$\gamma g \gamma^{-1} = \gamma \left ( \prod\limits_{i=1}^{k} [a_i,b_i] \right ) \gamma^{-1} =$$
>>	$$= \prod\limits_{i=1}^{k} \gamma [a_i,b_i] \gamma^{-1} = \prod\limits_{i=1}^{k} [\gamma a_i \gamma^{-1},\gamma b_i \gamma^{-1}]$$
>>	And by the induction hypothesis $G^{(n)} \trianglelefteq G$ and thus $\gamma a_i \gamma^{-1},\gamma b_i \gamma^{-1} \in G^{(n)}$ for all $i \in [k]$. And therefor $\prod\limits_{i=1}^{k} [\gamma a_i \gamma^{-1},\gamma b_i \gamma^{-1}] \in \left < [a,b] \mid a,b \in G^{(n)} \right > = G^{(n + 1)}$.
>>	So we got $\gamma g \gamma^{-1} = \prod\limits_{i=1}^{k} [\gamma a_i \gamma^{-1},\gamma b_i \gamma^{-1}] \in \left < [a,b] \mid a,b \in G^{(n)} \right > = G^{(n + 1)}$
>>	Meaning $G^{(n + 1)} \trianglelefteq G$
>>	$\blacksquare$

In fact, the derived series provides an equivalent definition the term "solvable".

> Theorem (6.27):
> 	Let $G$ be a group, then the following are equivalent:
>>	(1): $G$ is solvable.
>>		Meaning (by definition) that $G$ has a normal series with abelian quotients.
>
>>	(2): The derived series "tends to 0".
>>		Meaning $\exists r \in \mathbb{N}$ s.t. $G^{(r)} = \left\{ e \right\}$
>
>>	(3): $G$ has a normal series
>>	$$\left\{ e \right\} = G_0 \trianglelefteq G_1 \trianglelefteq \cdots \trianglelefteq G_r = G$$
>>	with abelian quotients, s.t. $\forall i \in [r] \cup \left\{ 0 \right\}: G_i \trianglelefteq G$

>Proof:
>>	2 $\implies$ 3:
>>		The derived series itself is a normal series  [[#^55ab35 | with abelian quotients]]. And all of the subgroups in the series [[#^da0e12 | are normal]] in $G$.
>
>>	3 $\implies 1$:
>>		Obvious.
>
>>	1 $\implies 2$:
>>		Assume that $G$ is solvable. Meaning, there is
>>		$$\left\{ e \right\} = G_0 \trianglelefteq G_1 \trianglelefteq \cdots \trianglelefteq G_r = G$$
>>		with abelian quotients.
>>		We will show in induction on $i$ for all $0 \leq i \leq r$ that $G^{(i)} \leq G_{r-i}$ (And get for $i = r$ that $G^{(r)} \leq G_0 = \left\{ e \right\}$ as required)
>>>		Base case $i = 0$:
>>>			$G^{(i)} = G^{(0)} = G$
>>>			$G_{r-i} = G_r = G$
>>>			And Indeed $G \leq G$.
>>
>>>		Step: We will assume for $i \in [r - 1] \cup \left\{ e \right\}$ and we show for $i + 1$.
>>>		$$G^{(i+1)} = \left ( G^{(i)} \right )' \underset{*}{\leq} \left ( G_{r-i} \right )' \underset{**}{\leq} G_{r-i-1} = G_{r-(i+1)}$$
>>>		Where the * inequality is by the induction hypothesis and [[#^dd3ac0 | the lemma]]
>>>		And the ** inequality is because $G_{r-i} \big / G_{r-i-1}$ is abelian, and [[#^9d6b3f | we know]] that every normal subgroup of $G_{r-i}$ such that the quotient is abelian contains $\left ( G_{r-i} \right )'$.
>$\blacksquare$

>Lemma: Let $G$ be a group, $A,B \leq G$ s.t. $A \leq B$ then $A' \leq B'$ ^dd3ac0

For finite groups we can add the following equivilance:

>Theorem (6.28):
>	Let $G$ be a finite group. Then $G$ is solvable $\iff$ The composition factors of $G$ ([[משפט ז'ורדן הולדר#^6d06a4 | Which do not depand on the composition series]]) are cyclic groups of prime orders

^ea6a13

> Exercie (6.29):
>>	(1): Prove [[#^ea6a13 | Theorem (6.28)]]
>
>>	(2): Prove also this equivalence:
>>		For a finite group $G$, It is solvable $\iff$ It has a normal series with cyclic quotients

^896663

>Solution:
>>	(1): Not that easy (The direction from right to left is easy, the other is not)
>
>>	(2): Again, not for now.

Now we will see an important criteria for solvability:

>Thoerem (6.30):
>	Let $G$ be a group, $K \leq G$ And $N \trianglelefteq G$. Then:
>>	(1): $G$ solvable $\implies$ $K$ solvable
>
>>	(2): $G$ solvable $\implies$ $G \big/ N$ Solvable
>
>>	(3): If both $N$ and $G \big/ N$ are solvable then $G$ is solvable

^7b6ac4

>Proof:
>>	(1): Skipped for now.
>
>>	(2): 
>
>>	(3): 

> Thoerem (6.31):
> 	Let $G$ be a $p$  - group of order $p^n$ ($n \in \mathbb{N}$), then $G$ is solvable.

>Proof:
>	From [[סדרות הרכב#^fbb6d3 | Every finite group has a composition series]] we know that $G$ has a composition series. Every one of the factors is itself a $p$-group, and therefor the fact that it is simple means that it is cyclic of prime size. And from [[#^ea6a13]] we are done. $\blacksquare$ 

>Proof (2):
>	In the book they bring a proof that uses [[חבורות פתירות#^7b6ac4]]



הרבה תוכן שאני מדלג