The definition of the "Upper central series"
Note: $\zeta^0(G) := \left\{ e \right\}$

>Exercise (6.42):
>	Prove that $\zeta^i(G) \trianglelefteq G$ for all $i \in \mathbb{N} \cup \left\{ 0 \right\}$
>	(Which explaines why $G \big / \zeta^i(G)$ is a group at all)

^8e051d

> Solution:
> 	In induction on $i$.
> 	>Base case $i = 0$: Obvious
> 	
> 	>Step: Assume for $i \in \mathbb{N} \cup \left\{ 0 \right\}$ and we will show for $i + 1$.
> 	>	By definition $\zeta^{i+1}(G) \big / \zeta^i(G) = Z(G \big / \zeta^i(G))$. And since $Z(G \big / \zeta^i(G)) \trianglelefteq G \big / \zeta^i(G)$, by the [[משפט ההתאמה/משפט האיזו הרביעי]] we will get that $\zeta^i(G) \trianglelefteq \zeta^{i+1}(G) \trianglelefteq G$.
> 	$\blacksquare$

Note: The upper series does not always grow. For example when the center of $G$ is trivial.

>Definition (6.34) (Nilpotent group) (חבורה נילפוטנטית):
>	Let $G$ be a group. 
>	>$G$ is called "nilpotent" when there is $r \in \mathbb{N}$ s.t. $\zeta^r(G) = G$.
>	
>	>In that case ($A \neq \emptyset$ for $A := \left\{ r \in \mathbb{N} \mid \zeta^r(G) = G \right\}$), $r := min A$ will ba called the "nilponent class" (מחלקת הנילפוטנטיות) of $G$.

>Exercise (6.44):
>	>1) Prove that if $G$ is nilponent, then $G$ is solvable.
>	>2) Show that the opposit is not true, there is a solvable group which is not nilponent (Hint: Try groups of order 6)

>Solution:
>	>(1): We will show that the upper central series is also a normal series with abelian quotients.
>	>	We have already seen that [[#^8e051d | it is normal]].
>	>	The quotients are abelian because by definition they are isomorphic to the center of some group which is always abelian.
>	
>	>(2): Consider $S_3$. It is solvable ($\left\{ Id_3 \right\} \trianglelefteq A_3 \trianglelefteq S_3$ and the qutients are isomorphic to $\mathbb{Z}_3$ and $\mathbb{Z}_2$), but it is not nilpotent as $Z(S_3) = \left\{e\right\}$

>Exercise (6.45):
>	Prove that every (finite) $p$-group is nilpotent

> Solution:
> 	Every subgroup is a finite $p$-gorup (Which means the quotient is also a $p$ - group), and the center is never trivial (until eventually the group itself is trivial which means we got $G$ itself) so we are growing untill it is impossible to grow anymore (When we got $G$) $\blacksquare$

>Exercise (6.46):
>	For the following groups, determine if they are nilpotent, and for those which are, determine the nilpotent class
>	>(1): $\mathbb{Z}$

^3522fe

>	>(2): $S_n$ (For which values of $n$ is it nilpotent?)

^1a7c8e

>	>(3): $D_n$ (For which values of $n$ is it nilpotent?)

^68a2f7

>Solution:

>	>[[#^3522fe | (1):]]
>	>	Remember that $\mathbb{Z}$ is abelian. Thus $Z(\mathbb{Z}) = \mathbb{Z}$ and therefor it is nilpotent of class $1$.

>	>[[#^1a7c8e | (2):]]
>	>	[[#^27caa3 | We know that]] generally speaking (For $n \geq 3$) $S_n$ is "very non abelian" (i.e. $Z(S_n) = \left\{ Id_n \right\}$).
>	>	On the other hand, for $n = 2$ $\left\vert S_n \right\vert = 2$ and therefor $S_2 \cong \mathbb{Z}_2$ which is nilpotent of class $1$.

^6a6303

>	>[[#^68a2f7 | (3):]]
>	>	For $n = 3$ $D_3 \cong S_3$ and we already know. ([[#^6a6303 |From here]])
>	>	For odd $n$ we know that the center is trivial. So non-nilpotent
>	>	For even $n >= 4$ we know that $Z(D_n) = \left\{ Id, \sigma^{\frac{n}{2}} \right\}$ and the qutient $D_n \big / Z(D_n) \cong D_{\frac{n}{2}}$. So if $n$ is not a power of 2, at some point we will reach a quotient that has a trivial center, and the series ends without reaching the top, so the group is not nilpotent. But if it is a power of 2, then the series continues to grow every time, and we do finish (Also because it is a $2$-group).	

>Lemma: For $n \geq 3$ $Z(S_n) \left\{ Id_n \right\}$
>Proof:
>	(If some permutation is not e then it moves some a to some b. since n >= 3 there is c not in {a,b}. we define a new pem that swaps b and c, and look at the composition in two orders appliedd to a)
^27caa3

>Definition (The lower central series) (הסדרה המרכזית היורדת):
>	$\gamma_0(G) = G$
>	$\gamma_{i+1}(G) := [G, \gamma_i(G)]$

>Exercise (6.48):
>	Prove that $\gamma_{i+1}(G) \leq \gamma_{i}(G)$ and $\gamma_{i}(G) \trianglelefteq G$ for all $i$.
>	(My addition: Also prove that it is central, meaning that $\gamma_i(G) \big / \gamma_{i+1}(G) \leq Z(G \big / \gamma_i(G))$)

>Solution:
>	Skipping. Did with avi.

>Theorem:
>	Let $G$ be a group. Then $G$ is nilpotent $\iff$ The lower central series of $G$ reaches $\left\{ e \right\}$ (Meaning there is some $r \in \mathbb{N}$ s.t. $\gamma_r(G) = \left\{ e \right\}$)
>	Moreover, "They reach the end in the same amount of steps"

>Proof:
>	