We defined a [[חבורות פשוטות#^28bbcb | simple group]], and we have seen two families of such groups, $\mathbb{Z}_p$ for prime $p$, and $A_n$ for $n \geq 5$.

הקדמה חופרת בספר...

ניתן לפרק למכפלה של חבורה נורמלית והמנה עם אותה חבורה. וכך הלאה.

האם לכל חבורה ניתן למצוא פירוק כזה? ^6c41c4
תשובה: [[#^758d1c | דוגמה נגדית מהשלמים]]

האם כל פירוק כזה (על ידי להתחיל מנורמלית אחרת למשל) יוביל ל"אותו פירוק"?
תשובה: [[משפט ז'ורדן הולדר]]

האם ניתן לשחזר את $G$ מהפירוק שלה? כלומר האם $G$ הפירוק הוא ייחודי ל- $G$ או שמא יש אולי $G' \cancel\cong G$ כך שהפירוק של $G'$ הוא כמו הפירוק של $G$?
תשובה: [[#^680c7d | ההשוואה של השלמים מוד 6 לעומת הסימטריות על 3 איברים]]

Def (6.1):
Let $G$ be a group.

>1) A series of subgroups
>$$\left\{ e \right\} = H_0 \leq H_1 \leq \dots \leq H_r = G$$
>is called a "normal series" of $G$ of length $r$, when
>$$\forall i \in [r]: H_{i - 1} \trianglelefteq H_i$$
>(סדרה נורמלית מאורך $r$)

>2) A normal series is called "Stutter-free" when
>$$\forall i \in [r]: H_{i - 1} \lneq H_i$$
>(סדרה נורמלית לא מגמגמת)

>3) A second normal series
>$$\left\{ e \right\} = H'_0 \trianglelefteq H'_1 \trianglelefteq \dots \trianglelefteq H'_s = G$$
>is called a "refinement" of the first one when there exists $0= j_0 < j_1 < \cdots < j_r = s$ s.t. $H'_{j_i} = H_i$ $\forall i \in [r] \cup \left\{ 0 \right\}$
>(Meaning the seconds series is obtained by "pushing" extra subgroups between the ones in the first series).
>(עידון של סדרה)

>4) A normal series is called a "composition series" or a "Jordan - Holder" series when the quotient $H_i / H_{i - 1}$ is simple (And not trivial), for all $i \in [r]$.
>(סדרת הרכב / סדרת ג'ורדן-הלדר)

>5) Given a composition series, the quotients $H_i / H_{i - 1}$ are called the "Composition factors" of the series.
>(גורמי ההרכב)

Remark (6.2):
By the [[]] we know that ...
בתכלס ניתן להגדיר סדרת הרכב כסדרה לא מגמגמת שכל עידון (עידון ממש, לא היא עצמה) מגמגם.

Example:
$$\left\{ e \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \: <(1 \: 2)(3 \: 4)> \: \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} V \overset{\mathbb{Z}_3}{\trianglelefteq} A_4 \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} S_4$$
Where the group on top of the $\trianglelefteq$ symbols is the known representation of the quotient group.
Here we can be sure each such quotient is simple because the order of the quotient is prime. ^6f3e61

We recognize that [[#^6c41c4]] is equivalent to the question:
Does every group $G$ have a composition series?
(I understand the equivalence in the Ipad, almost fully)

We notice that if $G$ is infinite, then it does not have to have such series. For

Example (6.3):
Consider $\mathbb{Z}$. If
$$\left\{ 0 \right\} = H_0 \trianglelefteq H_1 \trianglelefteq \dots \trianglelefteq H_s = \mathbb{Z}$$
is a non-stutter series of $\mathbb{Z}$, then $H_1 / H_0 \cong H_1 /  \left\{ 0 \right\} \cong H_1$ and by [[#^395ab2 | The lemma]] we have $H_1 \cong \mathbb{Z}$ so overall $H_1 / H_0 \cong \mathbb{Z}$, and we know $\mathbb{Z}$ is not simple. Therefor the series is not a composition series.
So $\mathbb{Z}$ does not have a composition series. ^758d1c

Lemma: If $\left\{ e \right\} \neq H \leq \mathbb{Z}$, then $H \cong \mathbb{Z}$. ^395ab2
Proof:
Since there are elements in $H$ that are not $0$, we know that $H \cap \mathbb{N} \neq \emptyset$.
Let $a := min \: H \cap \mathbb{N}$.
Let $b \in H$. We can write $b = n \cdot a + r$, for $n \in \mathbb{Z}$ and $0 \leq r < a$. So $r = b - n \cdot a  \:\in H$. And $0 \leq r < a \wedge r \in H \wedge a = min \: H \cup \mathbb{N} \implies r = 0$. so $b = n \cdot a \in a\cdot \mathbb{Z}$, so we have $H \subseteq a \cdot \mathbb{Z}$.
On the other hand, clearly $a \cdot \mathbb{Z} \subseteq H$ ($H$ is a group...). So we conclude that $H = a \cdot \mathbb{Z} \cong \mathbb{Z}$. $\blacksquare$

Theorem (6.4):
Every finite group has a composition series.
Proof: In induction on the order of group.
If $G = \left\{ e \right\}$, then it itself is a composition series by definition.
Let $G \neq \left\{ e \right\}$ be a finite group. Since $G$ is finite, it has a finite number of normal subgroups. Therefor, there is (at lease) one $N \triangleleft G$ such that $N$ is a maximal normal subgroup (Meaning if $H \trianglelefteq G$ and $N \subsetneq H$ then $H = G$) (If $G$ is simple then $N = \left\{ e \right\}$). Which by the [[משפט ההתאמה]] means $G / N$ is simple.
And now, from the induction hypothesis, we get
$$\left\{ e \right\} = H_0 \trianglelefteq H_1 \trianglelefteq \dots \trianglelefteq H_s = N$$
a composition series for $N$. And now
$$\left\{ e \right\} = H_0 \trianglelefteq H_1 \trianglelefteq \dots \trianglelefteq H_s = N \trianglelefteq G$$
a composition series for $G$. $\blacksquare$ ^fbb6d3

If a group does have a composition series, is it unique?
[[#^6f3e61 | We've seen before]] a composition series for $S_4$. The first subset there was $<(1 \: 2)(3 \: 4)>$ and we can notice that $<(1 \: 3)(2 \: 4)>$ would have worked just the same. So the composition series is not unique.

Notice that for $\mathbb{Z}_{12}$ we have:
$$\left\{ e \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_3}{\trianglelefteq} \: <4> \: \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \: <2> \: \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \mathbb{Z}_{12}$$
$$\left\{ e \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \: <6> \: \overset{\mathbb{Z}_3}{\trianglelefteq} \: <2> \: \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \mathbb{Z}_{12}$$
And here not only are the series different, but also the order of the composition factors is different. And we wonder, could there be two composition series where the composition factors are not only in different order, but they are different altogether? [[^ | Soon]] we will see that they must be the same.

Consider $\mathbb{Z}_6$ and $S_3$.
$$\mathbb{Z}_3 \cong \left\{ 0,2,4 \right\} \trianglelefteq \mathbb{Z}_6$$
$$\mathbb{Z}_3 \cong A_3 \trianglelefteq S_3$$
And both cases the quotient has two elements and therefor
$$\mathbb{Z}_6 / \left\{ 0,2,4 \right\} \cong \mathbb{Z}_6 / \mathbb{Z}_3 \cong \mathbb{Z}_2$$
$$S_3 / A_3 \cong \mathbb{Z}_2$$
Thus we have
$$\left\{ e \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_3}{\trianglelefteq} \: \left\{ 0,2,4 \right\} \: \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \mathbb{Z}_{6}$$
$$\left\{ e \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_3}{\trianglelefteq} \: A_3 \: \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} S_3$$
So we got that the composition factors of $\mathbb{Z}_6$ and $S_3$ are the same, although $\mathbb{Z}_6 \not\cong S_3$ (For example because one is abelian and one is not...). ^680c7d
And we conclude that the composition factors are not unique for the group.

Exercise (6.5):
Let $G$ be a finite group with a normal series
$$\left\{ e \right\} = H_0 \trianglelefteq H_1 \trianglelefteq \dots \trianglelefteq H_{r - 1} \trianglelefteq H_r = G$$
Prove that
$$\left\vert G \right\vert = \prod_{i = 1}^{r} \left\vert H_i / H_{i - 1} \right\vert$$
Solution:
We will prove it in induction on $r$. ^5d3900
>Base case, $r = 1$: Obvious.
>Step: Assume for $r \in \mathbb{N}$. And we will show for $r + 1$.
>	So we have
>	$$\left\{ e \right\} = H_0 \trianglelefteq H_1 \trianglelefteq \dots \trianglelefteq H_r \trianglelefteq H_{r + 1} = G$$
>	We know that [[]](להשלים את הטענה הזאת שראינו גם למעלה וגם בתחילת פרק חבורות פשוטות) $G \cong G / N \times N$ for $N = H_r$.
>	And therefor
>	$$\left\vert G \right\vert = \left\vert G / H_{r} \right\vert \cdot \left\vert H_r \right\vert$$
>	Now, we notice that $\left\{ e \right\} = H_0 \trianglelefteq H_1 \trianglelefteq \dots \trianglelefteq H_r$ is a normal series for $H_r$. And by the induction hypothesis
>	$$\left\vert H_r \right\vert = \prod_{i = 1}^{r} \left\vert H_i / H_{i - 1} \right\vert$$
>	And thus we get that
>	$$\left\vert G \right\vert = \left\vert G / H_{r} \right\vert \cdot \left\vert H_r \right\vert = \left\vert G / H_{r} \right\vert \cdot \prod_{i = 1}^{r} \left\vert H_i / H_{i - 1} \right\vert = $$
>	$$= \left\vert H_{r + 1} / H_{r} \right\vert \cdot \prod_{i = 1}^{r} \left\vert H_i / H_{i - 1} \right\vert = \prod_{i = 1}^{r + 1} \left\vert H_i / H_{i - 1} \right\vert$$
>	$\blacksquare$

Exercise (6.6):
Find the pair of groups that are not isomorphic of the smallest order, that have the same composition factors
Solution:
$\mathbb{Z}_4$ and $\mathbb{Z}_2 \times \mathbb{Z}_2$.
Because
$$\left\{ 0 \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \left\{ 0,2 \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \mathbb{Z}_4$$
And
$$\left\{ (0,0) \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \left\{ (0,0),(1,1) \right\} \overset{\mathbb{Z}_2}{\trianglelefteq} \mathbb{Z}_2 \times \mathbb{Z}_2$$
Have the same factors.
And any two groups of size smaller than 4 are isomorphic.